Day-10
State file Migration: IS it possible to move terraform state file from local to s3 , but we can not transfer fro remote to local.
#reason , when we trasfre from local to remote we mention tw backend, one is local and second is remote, but in case of remote to local we don'thve any otheroption.

Terraform version:
    1-community edition:
    2-enterprise edition:
        :SAAS: no installation required , just signup , pay and go (Terraform cloud)
        :Hosted:you get the terraform portal installed on on premises.

    Pros of EE:

        workflow management
        central state file management
        state file versioning
        Identity and Access
        Sentinel policy

SAAS:  app.terraform.io
    organization: root
        project: folder
            workspaces: contain state file 
first we create project with the unique name.
by default we have a project

here basically organization and projectuse for providing Access, for example , if we provide access on oraganization level , user will getthe access on all the folder within this organization.
terraform workspace --help
terraform workspace list
terraform workspace show
terraform workspace new ashish
terraform workspace select arun

Workspace:
    workspace could be of three types: cli driven, version control and api-driven
        1- CLI driven:(workspace)
            main.tf (plan/apply) -->tfe cloud-->aws(target)
            main.tf could be on local or cicd.
                here tfe cloud is used for only state file.

                cli driven :
                    1-excution plan local: plan/ apply will run from local machine/cicd , same will be apply on aws and state file will be on tfe coud. aws cred will be on local/cicd
                    2-exection mode remote: plan and alpply we raun from local/cicd, but it actually run on tfe cloud and same will be streamed on local/cicd. aws cred will be on tfe cloud.

            Conclusion: in local execution, tfe cloud will be work as backend to manage the state file. no workflow management because we are running plan/apply from local/cicd. and that will be 
                directly applied on aws. but in remote driven , plan/apply will be run from tef cloud, so we could use workflow management (like approve/reject ) and aws cred will be also on tfe cloud.
        One more Imp concept: While we mention backend cloud, earlier terraform backend which was s3 , will be migrate to cloud, 
        How it happens? there is one more {}terraform.tfstae file getcreate when e mention backend as s3 in the ./terraform/provider folder, which contain the information of the current backend.
        as pper the rule, we can not mentioned second second backend, so  it reads from the current {}terraform.tfstate file and proess accordingly.

        we can not terraform init command here, because we are not able to authorize to tfe, so on cmd what we run, terraform login app.terraform.io

    2-Version Control:(work space)
        there will be a speculative plan, which run after rising the PR and before merging to main branch (before reviewr approve the PR)
    Sentinel policy run after plan and before apply.
    Sentinel policy will be apply at organization level not  workspace level:


Day-11:
from where we are calling to other module is aclled root module, and the module which we are calling is known as child module.
Module is just like a function, as we can pass the vaue to the function from where we calling, same thing happening in module.
Module is of two types:
    1-private module
    2-public module

In case we are using public module, two things are mandatory:
    1-source
    2-version
    module source:
    1-local: no versioning. only local path
    2-git: github.com/abd/ghjj?ref=(branchname|tagname) -here we give vrsion , not in code
    3-terraform private registry:full url with version code
    4-terraform public registry: no full url required. name will start with terraform.-aws-, version shold be there in code
    5-s3 :https://s3..../vpc.zip (no versioning like local)
    6-http url:http://.....zip no versioning

Most Imp: When we mention module, terraform initis must, because we download the module.


local module:
    local --git--private registry
    avoid use of loop in module (for_each,count) as much as possible, avoid this.
    variablised all the variable 
    don't mention terraform block and provider block in child module.

    how to getthe output ofthe child module in the output ofthe parent module:

    if you create repository on github:
        nomenclature should be like : terraform-provider(aws)-myrsourcemode
        keep child module on github
        https://github.com/ashish222148git/terraform-aws-ashishmodule.git copy the link of git hub but keep in the below format in odule section:
        source="github.com/ashish222148git/terraform-aws-ashishmodule?ref=main"
        we can also provide vesrion of the code instaed of branch name 
        source="github.com/ashish222148git/terraform-aws-ashishmodule?ref=v.10"

the we can push our git hub repo on the terraform enterprise private registry


    



